Components of the Game:
1) 2-8 players are needed for this game.
2) The Monopoly Board shown on the Computer Screen.
3) Two dice that the computer rolls when commanded.
4) Tokens for each player. 
5) 32 houses and 12 hotels.
6) 16 Chance and 16 Community Chest cards.
7) 28 Title Deed cards for each property. 
8) Money (held in the computer-run bank).

Object of the Game: to become the wealthiest player through buying, renting, and selling property as well as forcing 
other players into bankruptcy. 

Setup: 
1) Once a player moves on from these directions the Monopoly Board will pull up and you will begin playing. 
The Board has Chance and Community Chest cards face down on their alloted spaces.
2) Each player will choose one token to represent them on the Board.
3) Each player is given $1500 which is divided like so: 2 $500s, 2 $100s, 2 $50s, 6 $20s, 5 $10s, 5 $5s, and 5 $1s.

Buying Property: 
1) When land on unknown property, a player can buy that property from the Bank. 
2) Once doing this, the player receives the Title Deed card. 
3) If a player does not wish to buy the property, the Bank sells the property through an auction to the highest bidder. 
Bidding may start at any price and any player may bid. 

Paying Rent:
1) If a player lands on a property owned by another player, the owner collects rent in accordance with the rent price on 
the Title Deed card. 
2) If the property is mortgaged, the owner cannot collect rent. 
3) If a owner holds all the Title Deed cards in a color-group, the owner may charge double rent. 
4) The owner may not collect rent if they fail to ask for rent before the next player rolls dice. 

Chance Cards:
1) When a player lands on one of these spaces, they take the top card from the decks and follow the instructions on the 
card. Then return the card to the deck. 
2) A "Get Out of Jail Free" card can be held until used, then return. 
3) A player can also sell a "Get Out of Jail Free" card at an agreeable price. 

Jail:
1) If a player is sent to jail, they must go directly to jail from their spot on the board. If "GO" is passed, no salary
may be collected. The player's turn ends when they are sent to jail. 
2) If a player lands on jail, but is not sent to jail, they are not in jail. The player is "Just Visiting" and may move ahead
in the usual manner. 
3) A player gets out of jail by either paying a $50 fine before their next turn, using their "Get Out of Jail Free" card, or
buying a "Get Out of Jail Free" card from another player. 

Free Parking:
1) This is a "free" resting space. 
The player landing on it doesn't receive money, property, reward, or penalty of any kind. 
2) If a player lands on this space, the player will then switch directions and go around the board the other way. This happens every time
 a player lands on this space. A player can switch directions multiple times. 

Houses and Hotels:
1) When a player owns all the properties in a color-group, the player can buy houses from the Bank.
2) A player may buy as many houses as they want, but they cannot erect more than one house on any one property
of any color-group until they have built one house on every property of that group.
3) The price for each house is on the Title Deed card for the property the house is erected on.
4) The owner still collects double rent from an opponent who lands on the unimproved properties of the owner's complete color-group.
5) When a player has 4 houses on each property of a complete color-group, they may buy a hotel from the Bank. 
6) Only one hotel may be erected on any one property. 

Building Shortages:
1) When the Bank has no more houses to sell, players must wait for a player to return or sell their houses to the Bank. 
2) If there are a limited number of houses or hotels available and two or more players want to buy more than is available,
the Bank will sell the houses/hotels at auction to the highest bidder. 

Selling Property:
1) Unimproved properties, railroads, and utilities may be sold to any player as a private transaction for any amount the 
owner can get. 
2) Properties cannot be sold to another player if buildings are standing on any properties of that color-group. 
3) Buildings must be sold back to the Bank before the owner can sell any property of that color-group. 
4) Houses and hotels can be sold back to the bank at any time for one-half the price paid for them. 

Mortgages:
1) Unimproved properties can be mortgaged through the Bank at any time. The mortgage value is printed on each
Title Deed card. 
2) If a property has buildings, the buildings must be sold back to the Bank at half price before the property can
be mortgaged. 
3) No rent can be collected on mortgaged properties or utilities. 
4) The owner must pay the Bank the amount of the mortgage with a 10% interest to lift a mortgage. 
5) When all properties of a color-group are no longer mortgaged, the owner may begin buying back houses
and hotels. 
6) The player who mortgages property retains possession of it, no other player may secure the property nor 
lift the mortgage from the Bank. 
7) The owner may sell the mortgaged property to another player at any agreed price. The new owner still follows the rules 
for lifting the mortgage (4).

Bankruptcy:
1) A player is bankrupt if they owe more than they can pay to either another player or the Bank. 
2) If a player's debt is to another player they must turn over everything they have to that player.
If you own houses and hotels you must return them to the Bank in exchange for money (to the extend of 
1/2 the amount paid for the houses and hotels) to give to the creditor. If the player has mortgaged property 
they also turn the property over to the creditor. The new owner must pay the 10% interest on the 
property to the Bank. 
3) If a player's debt is to the bank, the player must turn over all assets to the Bank. The Bank immediately
sells, by auction, all property except the buildings. 
4) Money can be loaned to a player only by the Bank (by mortgaging property) and no other player may borrow 
from or lend money to another player. 

How to Play: 
1) Each player will roll the dice to see who goes first. The player with the highest sum of the dice goes first
(in the case of a tie, the younger of the two goes first). Then the other players follow in a clockwise direction. 
2) Each player's token begins at "GO". A player rolls the dice, adds the total, and moves that many spaces on the board. 
Two or more tokens may rest on the same space at the same time. 
3) Depending on the space landed on, a player may buy property, pay rent, draw a Chance or Community Chest card,
or go to Jail. 
4) If your die roll the same number, you get to play another turn and roll again. If you roll the same number three times 
in a row you go straight to jail. 
5) Each time a player's token lands on or passes over "GO", the Bank pays the player a $200 salary. 
